Add OpenSearch roadmap blog (#3287)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2024-09-12-opensearch-project-roadmap-2024-2025.md

additional_author_info: We sincerely appreciate the contributions to this blog from Yupeng Fu (Uber), Karthikeyan Ramasamy (Uber), Shuyi Z. (Uber), Shubham Gupta (Uber), George Luong (Slack/Salesforce), Austin Lee (Aryn), Andriy Redko (Aiven), Yuncheng Lu (ByteDance), Tianjin Li (Cohere), and AWS contributors (Anandhi Bumstead, Carl Meadows, Michael Froh, Shweta Thareja, Saurabh Singh, Kunal Khatua, Andrew Ross, Sean Zheng, Anirudha Jadhav, Gopala Krishna Ambareesh, Yan Zeng, Huan Jiang, Vamshi Vijay Nakkirtha, Craig Perkins, Peter Zhu, Joshua Bright, David Venable, Bukhtawar Khan, Prabhakar Sithanandam, Ranjith Ramachandra, Sorabh Hamirwasia, Charlie Yang, Rohit Wali, Peng Huo, and Fanit Kolchina). 

> meta_keywords: OpenSearch Project roadmap, search engine, vector database, log analytics, security analytics, observability, generative AI, open-source, streaming data, data prepper, modular architecture, scalability, performance

Reviewer: Updated blog meta: 
_**meta_keywords:**_  OpenSearch roadmap, open source search, vector database, generative AI, observability, log analytics, security analytics, cloud native architecture, OpenSearch performance optimization

_**meta_description:**_  Explore the OpenSearch Project's roadmap for 2024-2025 and learn how the community is driving the project forward to make it the preferred open-source solution for search, analytics, and generative AI applications.

> meta_keywords: OpenSearch Project roadmap, search engine, vector database, log analytics, security analytics, observability, generative AI, open-source, streaming data, data prepper, modular architecture, scalability, performance

Author: ```suggestion
meta_keywords: OpenSearch roadmap, open source search, vector database, generative AI, observability, log analytics, security analytics, cloud native architecture, OpenSearch performance optimization
```

> meta_description: Explore OpenSearch’s revamped roadmap, featuring new capabilities in search, streaming data, vectors, observability, and security analytics, with a focus on transparency, collaboration, and innovation.

Author: ```suggestion
meta_description:  Explore the OpenSearch Project's roadmap for 2024-2025 and learn how the community is driving the project forward to make it the preferred open-source solution for search, analytics, and generative AI applications.
```

> 

Author: Defined but I don't think a link is necessary

### Roadmap Theme 1: Vector Database and Generative AI

The OpenSearch roadmap includes several innovations to OpenSearch's vector database and ML functionality. These innovations focus on enhancing vector search and making ML-powered applications and integrations more flexible and easier to build. AI advancements are transforming the search experience for end users of all skill levels. By integrating AI models, OpenSearch delivers more relevant search results to all users. Experienced builders can apply additional techniques such as query rewriting, result reranking, personalization, semantic search, summarization, and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) in order to further enhance search result accuracy. Many of these techniques rely on a vector database. With the current rise of generative AI, OpenSearch is gaining traction as a vector database solution powered by k-NN indexes. Our planned innovations will make OpenSearch vector database features easy to use and more efficient while lowering operational costs. 

> **Vector search price performance**: To further improve the price performance of vector search, we are planning several key initiatives, such as offering a [disk-optimized ANN solution](https://github.com/opensearch-project/k-NN/issues/1779) that uses quantized vectors to provide up to 32x compression and a 70% cost reduction, while still maintaining recall and requiring no pretraining. We are optimizing memory footprint functionality using techniques like iterative product quantization (PQ) and data types like [binary vectors](https://github.com/opensearch-project/k-NN/issues/1764). Additionally, we are implementing smart routing capabilities that allow you to organize indexes by semantic similarity for doubled query throughput, enabling multi-tenancy and smart filtering for high-recall ANN search at the tenant level and using GPUs to significantly accelerate index build times for k-NN indexes, with a 10–40x better price/performance ratio compared to CPU-based infrastructure. We also plan to further lower costs by storing full-precision vectors on cold storage systems like Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3). The smart routing capabilities will place neighboring embeddings on the same node, improving query efficiency. The multi-tenancy and smart filtering features will cater to use cases requiring granular filtering of large datasets with stringent recall targets, enhancing efficiency and cost effectiveness. OpenSearch already provides memory footprint reduction techniques, such as PQ using HNSWPQ and IVFPQ and scalar quantization (SQ) in byte and fp16 formats. We are now investing in additional techniques to further compress vectors while maintaining recall similar to that provided when using full-precision vectors. The upcoming innovations are expected to significantly improve the price performance of vector search, making it more accessible and cost effective for a wide range of applications.

Author: ```suggestion
**Vector search price performance**: To further improve the price performance of vector search, we are planning several key initiatives, such as offering a [disk-optimized approximate nearest neighbor (ANN) solution](https://github.com/opensearch-project/k-NN/issues/1779) that uses quantized vectors to provide up to 32x compression and a 70% cost reduction, while still maintaining recall and requiring no pretraining. We are optimizing memory footprint functionality using techniques like iterative product quantization (PQ) and data types like [binary vectors](https://github.com/opensearch-project/k-NN/issues/1764). Additionally, we are implementing smart routing capabilities that allow you to organize indexes by semantic similarity for doubled query throughput, enabling multi-tenancy and smart filtering for high-recall ANN search at the tenant level and using GPUs to significantly accelerate index build times for k-NN indexes, with a 10–40x better price/performance ratio compared to CPU-based infrastructure. We also plan to further lower costs by storing full-precision vectors on cold storage systems like Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3). The smart routing capabilities will place neighboring embeddings on the same node, improving query efficiency. The multi-tenancy and smart filtering features will cater to use cases requiring granular filtering of large datasets with stringent recall targets, enhancing efficiency and cost effectiveness. OpenSearch already provides memory footprint reduction techniques, such as PQ using HNSWPQ and IVFPQ and scalar quantization (SQ) in byte and fp16 formats. We are now investing in additional techniques to further compress vectors while maintaining recall similar to that provided when using full-precision vectors. The upcoming innovations are expected to significantly improve the price performance of vector search, making it more accessible and cost effective for a wide range of applications.
```

**OpenSearch Assistant Toolkit**: The [OpenSearch Assistant Toolkit](https://github.com/opensearch-project/dashboards-assistant/issues/18) helps create AI-powered assistants for OpenSearch Dashboards. Its main goal is to simplify interaction with OpenSearch features and enhance their accessibility. For example, using natural language queries allows interacting with OpenSearch without the need to learn a custom query language. The toolkit empowers OpenSearch users to build their own AI-powered applications tailored to their customized use cases. It contains built-in skills that will allow users to use LLMs to create new visualizations based on their data, summarize their data, and help configure anomaly detectors. The OpenSearch Assistant will guide both novice and experienced users, simplifying complex tasks and making it easier to effectively navigate OpenSearch. For more information, see [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VTiJtGI2Sr4).

> 

Author: They are called "skills" so I think it's best to keep it that way. Changed "users" to "builders"

**Scaling admin APIs**: For large cluster configurations, cluster manager nodes become the scaling bottlenecks as multiple admin APIs obtain the cluster state from the active cluster manager node, even if the latest state is present locally or present in a remote store. With the ongoing optimizations, the coordinator node can [serve the admin APIs without relaying the request](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/pull/12252/) to cluster manager in most cases. Also, for APIs like CAT Shards and CAT Snapshotos, the response size increases as the cluster expands to 100K shards or more. We plan to introduce [pagination](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/14258) and [cancellation](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/13908) for these APIs to ensure that these APIs continue to operate efficiently regardless of the metadata size. We are implementing multiple optimizations in the Stats and Cluster APIs by eliminating redundant processing and performing [pre-aggregation](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/pull/14426) on the data node before responding to the coordinator node receiving the user request.

> 

Author: "Size" is clearer in this case. Reworded the last sentence.

> **Scaling admin APIs**: For large cluster configurations, cluster manager nodes become scaling bottlenecks as multiple admin APIs obtain the cluster state from the active cluster manager node, even if the latest state is present locally or present in a remote store. With the ongoing optimizations, the coordinator node can [serve the admin APIs without relaying the request](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/pull/12252/) to the cluster manager node in most cases. Also, for APIs like CAT Shards and CAT Snapshotos, the response size increases as the cluster expands to 100K shards or more. We plan to introduce [pagination](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/14258) and [cancellation](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/13908) for these APIs to ensure that they continue to operate efficiently regardless of the metadata size. We are implementing multiple optimizations to the Stats and Cluster APIs by eliminating redundant processing and performing [pre-aggregation](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/pull/14426) on the data node before responding to the coordinator node receiving the user request.

Author: ```suggestion
**Scaling admin APIs**: For large cluster configurations, cluster manager nodes become scaling bottlenecks as multiple admin APIs obtain the cluster state from the active cluster manager node, even if the latest state is present locally or present in a remote store. With the ongoing optimizations, the coordinator node can [serve the admin APIs without relaying the request](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/pull/12252/) to the cluster manager node in most cases. Also, for APIs like CAT Shards and CAT Snapshotos, the response size increases as the cluster expands to 100K shards or more. We plan to introduce [pagination](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/14258) and [cancellation](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/13908) for these APIs to ensure that they continue to operate efficiently regardless of the metadata size. We are implementing multiple optimizations to the Stats and Cluster APIs that will eliminate redundant processing and perform [pre-aggregation](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/pull/14426) on the data node before responding to the coordinator node receiving the user request.
```

[**Workload management**](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/11061): An OpenSearch installation often contains a large number of tenants, all of which experience the same quality of service (QoS). However, this potentially means that an inexperienced tenant can consume more than the desired amount of resources of a cluster, which can lead to a degraded experience for other tenants. Admission control and search backpressure provide a best-effort assurance for cluster stability, but do not guarantee a consistent QoS. With the introduction of query groups, system administrators of OpenSearch clusters will be able to provide tenant-based performance isolation for search workloads, manage tenant-based query groups, and enforce resource-based limits on the tenants' workloads. This enhancement will allow system administrators to prioritize execution of some workloads over others, thereby further improving QoS guarantee levels.

> [**Cluster state management**](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/13257): The cluster manager node manages all admin operations in the cluster. These operations include creating and deleting indexes, updating fields in an existing index, taking snapshots, and adding and removing nodes. The metadata about indexes and other entities—data streams, templates, aliases, snapshots, and custom entities stored by plugins—is stored in a data structure called cluster state. Any change to cluster state is processed by the cluster manager node and persisted to that node’s local disk. Starting with version 2.12, OpenSearch added support for storing the cluster state remotely in order to provide durability guarantees. With the introduction of remote cluster state, replacing all cluster manager nodes will not result in any data loss in remote store clusters. The cluster manager node processes any cluster state updates and then sends the updated state to all the follower nodes in the cluster. As the state and number of follower nodes grow, the overhead on the cluster manager node increases significantly, as the cluster manager is responsible for publishing the updated state to all nodes in the cluster. This impacts the cluster’s stability and availability. To reduce work on Cluster Manager node, we are proposing to use the remote store for cluster state publication. The cluster manager will publish the entire cluster state to the remote store for download by each follower node. The published cluster state will include the ephemeral entities like the[shard routing table](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/14164), which stores the mapping of the shards assigned to each data node in the cluster. The cluster manager node will only communicate that a new state is available and provide the remote location of the new state, instead of publishing the entire cluster state. Publishing the state remotely will reduce memory, CPU, and transport thread overhead on the cluster manager node during cluster state changes. This approach also allows for on-demand download of entities on the data or coordinator nodes instead of requiring all nodes to maintain full cluster state. This will align with our vision of a more cloud native architecture by supporting stateless cluster manager backed by remote store in future. Remote publication will be generally available in OpenSearch 2.17 and is planned to be further enhanced in future releases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[**Cluster state management**](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/13257): The cluster manager node manages all admin operations in a cluster. These operations include creating and deleting indexes, updating fields in an existing index, taking snapshots, and adding and removing nodes. The metadata about indexes and other entities—data streams, templates, aliases, snapshots, and custom entities stored by plugins—is stored in a data structure called the cluster state. Any change to the cluster state is processed by the cluster manager node and persisted to that node's local disk. Starting with version 2.12, OpenSearch added support for storing the cluster state remotely in order to provide durability guarantees. With the introduction of a remote cluster state, replacing all cluster manager nodes will not result in any data loss in remote store clusters. The cluster manager node processes any cluster state updates and then sends the updated state to all the follower nodes in the cluster. As the state and number of follower nodes grow, the overhead on the cluster manager node increases significantly because the cluster manager node is responsible for publishing the updated state to every node in the cluster. This impacts the cluster's stability and availability. To reduce strain on the cluster manager node, we are proposing to use the remote store for cluster state publication. The cluster manager node will publish the entire cluster state to the remote store to be downloaded by each follower node. The published cluster state will include ephemeral entities like the [shard routing table](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/14164), which stores the mapping of the shards assigned to each data node in the cluster. The cluster manager node will only communicate that a new state is available and provide the remote location of the new state, instead of publishing the entire cluster state. Publishing the state remotely will reduce memory, CPU, and transport thread overhead on the cluster manager node during cluster state changes. This approach will also allow on-demand downloading of entities on the data or coordinator nodes instead of requiring all nodes to maintain the full cluster state. This will align with our vision of a more cloud-native architecture. Remote publication will be generally available in OpenSearch 2.17 and is planned to be further enhanced in future version releases.
```

> [**Data Prepper pipeline DLQ**](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/issues/3857): Data Prepper provides resilience when OpenSearch is down by buffering data and eventually writing to a dead-letter queue (DLQ) if the cluster remains unavailable. Currently, the supported DLQ targets are local file and Amazon S3. One current limitation is that data only goes into the DLQ if it fails to write to the sink. Other failures, such as during processing in the pipeline, do not send to the DLQ. With the proposed pipeline DLQ, Data Prepper will be able to send failed events to the pipeline DLQ or continue to send them downstream, allowing the pipeline author to decide. This will improve the resiliency of data throughout the pipeline. Additionally, the pipeline DLQ will be a pipeline just like any other and will be able to write to any supported Data Prepper sink, such as Apache Kafka. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[**Data Prepper pipeline DLQ**](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/issues/3857): Data Prepper provides resilience when OpenSearch is down by buffering data and eventually writing to a dead-letter queue (DLQ) if the cluster remains unavailable. Currently supported DLQ targets are local files and Amazon S3. One current limitation is that data is only sent to the DLQ if it fails to write to the sink. Other failures, such as during processing in the pipeline, do not case data to be sent to the DLQ. With the proposed pipeline DLQ, Data Prepper will be able to send failed events to the DLQ or continue to send them downstream, allowing the pipeline author to decide. This will improve the resiliency of data throughout the pipeline. Additionally, the pipeline DLQ will be a pipeline just like any other and will be able to write to any supported Data Prepper sink, such as Apache Kafka. 
```

### Roadmap Theme 7: Security

> Security is a Tier 0 prerequisite for modern workloads. In OpenSearch, security features are primarily implemented by the Security plugin, which offers a rich set of capabilities. These include various authentication backends (SAML, JWT, LDAP), authorization primitives, fine-grained access control (DLS/FLS), and encryption in transit. OpenSearch has [rapidly developed new plugin capabilities](https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/206/views/11?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=Security), attracting increased interest from the community. This growth also raises critical security implications. Importantly, security should not come at the cost of performance. To address these challenges, OpenSearch is focusing on the following initiatives to strengthen its security posture.

Reviewer 2: Should DLS/FLS be defined?

> Security is a Tier 0 prerequisite for modern workloads. In OpenSearch, security features are primarily implemented by the Security plugin, which offers a rich set of capabilities. These include various authentication backends (SAML, JWT, LDAP), authorization primitives, fine-grained access control (DLS/FLS), and encryption in transit. OpenSearch has [rapidly developed new plugin capabilities](https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/206/views/11?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=Security), attracting increased interest from the community. This growth also raises critical security implications. Importantly, security should not come at the cost of performance. To address these challenges, OpenSearch is focusing on the following initiatives to strengthen its security posture.

Author: ```suggestion
Security is a Tier 0 prerequisite for modern workloads. In OpenSearch, security features are primarily implemented by the Security plugin, which offers a rich set of capabilities. These include various authentication backends (SAML, JWT, LDAP), authorization primitives, fine-grained access control (document-level and file-level security, or DLS)/FLS), and encryption in transit. OpenSearch has [rapidly developed new plugin capabilities](https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/206/views/11?sliceBy%5Bvalue%5D=Security), attracting increased interest from the community. This growth also raises critical security implications. Importantly, security should not come at the cost of performance. To address these challenges, OpenSearch is focusing on the following initiatives to strengthen its security posture.
```

[**Plugin resource permissions**](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/4500): We are developing a mechanism for sharing plugin resources that supports existing use cases while allowing more granular control over resource sharing. Examples include model groups in the ML Commons plugin, anomaly detectors in the Time Series Analytics plugin, and detectors in the Alerting plugin.

> [**Plugin isolation**](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/4439): OpenSearch is moving towards a zero-trust model for plugins. Cluster administrators will have full [visibility into all permissions](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/2860) requested by a plugin before installation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[**Plugin isolation**](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/4439): OpenSearch is moving toward a zero-trust model for plugins. Cluster administrators will have full [visibility into all permissions](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/2860) requested by a plugin before installation.
```

> [**Optimized privilege evaluation**](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/3870): Performance is a key focus for OpenSearch. We’ve identified areas within the Security plugin that can yield significant performance improvements, especially for clusters with numerous indexes or roles mapped to users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[**Optimized privilege evaluation**](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/3870): Performance is a key focus for OpenSearch. We've identified areas within the Security plugin that can yield significant performance improvements, especially for clusters with numerous indexes or roles mapped to users.
```

> [**API tokens**](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/4009): API tokens introduce a new way to interact with OpenSearch clusters by associating permissions directly with a token. Cluster administrators will have full visibility and control over the issued tokens and their usage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[**API tokens**](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/4009): API tokens introduce a new way to interact with OpenSearch clusters by associating permissions directly with a token. Cluster administrators will have full visibility into and control over the issued tokens and their usage.
```

> [**Ease of use**](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security-dashboards-plugin/issues/2070): We aim to simplify security setup for cluster administrators. Many useful security features remain underused because they are not exposed through OpenSearch Dashboards. To address this, we will add security dashboard pages, where administrators can configure rate limiters to protect clusters from unauthenticated actors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[**Ease of use**](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security-dashboards-plugin/issues/2070): We aim to simplify security setup for cluster administrators. Many useful security features remain underused because they are not exposed through OpenSearch Dashboards. To address this, we will add security dashboard pages where administrators can configure rate limiters to protect clusters from unauthenticated actors.
```

Looking ahead, security primitives like [authorization could be extracted and made pluggable](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/4702), allowing integration with newer open standards for policy evaluation, such as Open Policy Agent (OPA) or Cedar.

> ### Roadmap Theme 8: Modular architecture

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Roadmap Theme 8: Modular Architecture
```

> OpenSearch is working towards well-supported modularity in order to enable **rapid development of properly encapsulated features and flexible deployment architectures** for cloud-native use cases. Historically, OpenSearch has been deployed and operated as a cluster model, in which all functions (such as replication and durability) were implemented within the cluster. While the project has grown organically, offering many extension points through plugins, it still relies on a monolithic server module at the core, with tight coupling across the architecture. As the project grows within a globally distributed community, this monolithic architecture will become an unsustainable bottleneck. Innovations such as the next-generation query engine are not possible with tightly coupled components. Additionally, the Java Security Manager is pending deprecation and removal from the Java runtime, and the recommended replacement technique ([shallow sandboxing](https://inside.java/2021/04/23/security-and-sandboxing-post-securitymanager/)) relies on using [newer language features that require properly modularized code](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/1588). The overall goal of the [modularity effort](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/5910) is to allow the same core OpenSearch code to run across all variants (for example, on-prem clusters and large managed serverless offerings) while providing strong encapsulation of cluster functions. This will facilitate more independent development and innovation across the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenSearch is working toward well-supported modularity in order to enable **rapid development of properly encapsulated features and flexible deployment architectures** for cloud-native use cases. Historically, OpenSearch has been deployed and operated as a cluster model, in which all functions (such as replication and durability) were implemented within the cluster. While the project has grown organically, offering many extension points through plugins, it still relies on a monolithic server module at its core, with tight coupling across the architecture. As the project grows within a globally distributed community, this monolithic architecture will become an unsustainable bottleneck. Innovations such as the next-generation query engine are not possible with tightly coupled components. Additionally, the Java Security Manager is pending deprecation and removal from the Java runtime, and the recommended replacement technique, ([shallow sandboxing](https://inside.java/2021/04/23/security-and-sandboxing-post-securitymanager/)), relies on using [newer language features that require properly modularized code](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/1588). The overall goal of the [modularity effort](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/5910) is to allow the same core OpenSearch code to run across all variants (for example, on-premises clusters and large managed serverless offerings) while providing strong encapsulation of cluster functions. This will facilitate more independent development and innovation across the project.
```

> ### Roadmap Theme 9: Releases and project health

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Roadmap Theme 9: Releases and Project Health
```

> With contributions ranging from code enhancements to feature requests across all roadmap themes, the OpenSearch Project community is working together on maintaining the stability of the codebase while ensuring CI/CD pipelines remain green across all active branches. This provides a reliable foundation for both new and existing contributors, reduces bugs, and safeguards feature integrity. The key repository health metrics are publicly available on the [Ops Dashboard](https://metrics.opensearch.org/_dashboards/app/dashboards#/view/f1ad21c0-e323-11ee-9a74-07cd3b4ff414?_g=(filters:!(),refreshInterval:(pause:!t,value:0),time:(from:now-4y,to:now))&_a=(description:'OpenSearch%20Ops%20Metrics',filters:!(),fullScreenMode:!f,options:(hidePanelTitles:!f,useMargins:!t),query:(language:kuery,query:''),timeRestore:!t,title:'OpenSearch%20Ops%20Metrics',viewMode:view)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With contributions ranging from code enhancements to feature requests across all roadmap themes, the OpenSearch community is working together to maintain the stability of the codebase while ensuring that CI/CD pipelines remain green across all active branches. This provides a reliable foundation for both new and existing contributors, reduces bugs, and safeguards feature integrity. Key repository health metrics are publicly available on the [Ops Dashboard](https://metrics.opensearch.org/_dashboards/app/dashboards#/view/f1ad21c0-e323-11ee-9a74-07cd3b4ff414?_g=(filters:!(),refreshInterval:(pause:!t,value:0),time:(from:now-4y,to:now))&_a=(description:'OpenSearch%20Ops%20Metrics',filters:!(),fullScreenMode:!f,options:(hidePanelTitles:!f,useMargins:!t),query:(language:kuery,query:''),timeRestore:!t,title:'OpenSearch%20Ops%20Metrics',viewMode:view)).
```

> The OpenSearch [release process](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/blob/main/RELEASING.md) is fully automated, including a one-click release system for some of the products like OpenSearch Benchmarks. Each product adheres to [semantic versioning (semver)](https://opensearch.org/blog/what-is-semver/), ensuring that breaking changes only occur in major versions. Releases follow a structured [schedule](https://opensearch.org/releases.html#release-schedule), starting with a code freeze and release candidate generation, and are driven by automated workflows that eliminate the need for manual sign-offs. We’re also building a [Central Release Dashboard](https://opensearch.org/release-dashboard) to streamline and provide visibility into the release pipeline from start to finish. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The OpenSearch [release process](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/blob/main/RELEASING.md) is fully automated, including a one-click release system for products such as OpenSearch Benchmark. Each product adheres to [semantic versioning (semver)](https://opensearch.org/blog/what-is-semver/), ensuring that breaking changes only occur in major versions. Releases follow a structured [schedule](https://opensearch.org/releases.html#release-schedule), starting with a code freeze and release candidate generation, and are driven by automated workflows that eliminate the need for manual sign-offs. We're also building a [Central Release Dashboard](https://opensearch.org/release-dashboard) to streamline and provide visibility into the release pipeline from start to finish. 
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Above: "start to finish" => "end to end" or "beginning to end"?

## Get involved

> We recognize that community engagement is crucial to the success of all the futuristic innovations that are mentioned in this post. We invite the open-source community to review our roadmap, provide feedback, and contribute to the OpenSearch Project. Your insights and contributions will be invaluable in helping us achieve these goals and continue improving OpenSearch. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recognize that community engagement is crucial to the success of all the innovations mentioned in this post. We invite the open-source community to review our roadmap, provide feedback, and contribute to the OpenSearch Project. Your insights and contributions will be invaluable in helping us to achieve these goals and continue improving OpenSearch. 
```

> You can [propose new ideas and features](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/blob/main/FEATURES.md) at any time using a GitHub issue and following our [feature request template](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/blob/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/FEATURE_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md). Once proposed, they can be included in the [public roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/206/views/11) by adding corresponding labels (such as Meta, RFC, and Roadmap), which are automatically populated for all the repositories and are categorized by themes for clarity. If you have any questions or suggestions on improving our processes, please feel free to reach out or contribute directly through [GitHub](https://github.com/opensearch-project). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can [propose new ideas and features](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/blob/main/FEATURES.md) at any time by creating a GitHub issue and following our [feature request template](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/blob/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/FEATURE_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md). Once proposed, they can be included in the [public roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/206/views/11) by adding corresponding labels (such as Meta, RFC, or Roadmap), which are automatically populated for all the repositories and are categorized by themes for clarity. If you have any questions or suggestions for improving our processes, please feel free to reach out or contribute directly through [GitHub](https://github.com/opensearch-project). 
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Above: "Once proposed, the issue can be included"? Or "Once proposed, the idea or feature can be included"? (What does "They" refer to?)

> We encourage you to actively participate in our project, because your involvement will help shape the future of OpenSearch. By engaging with our community, sharing your ideas, and contributing to development, you'll play a crucial role in driving innovation and improving the project. Thank you for your continued support and commitment to open source!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We encourage you to actively participate in our project because your involvement will help shape the future of OpenSearch. By engaging with our community, sharing your ideas, and contributing to development, you'll play a crucial role in driving innovation and improving the project. Thank you for your continued support and commitment to open source!
```
